{::options toc_levels="2,3" /}

A small collection of Frequently Asked Questions about Aegisub - mostly
stuff that didn't fit anywhere else.

### Karaoke effects? ###

See the [[Karaoke Templater tutorials|Automation/Karaoke_Templater/Tutorial_1]].

### Can I create DVD subtitles with Aegisub? ###

Not directly, but there's a nifty program called
[MaestroSBT](http://sourceforge.net/projects/maestrosbt/) that can
convert SSA to VOBSubs. It does have quite a bunch of restrictions on
what tags and other things may be used, so reading its manual first is
advised. Also note that it does not accept ASS - only SSA. You can use
Aegisub's File -> Export... dialog to save real SSA files.

### Does Aegisub allow saving to SRT? ###

Yes, but only if it means that no information will be lost. In other
words, if you have any override tags that aren't \1c, \b, or \i,
Aegisub won't allow saving directly to SRT. However, you can still
export to SRT by using the File -> Export... dialog box. Just uncheck
all the checkboxes (clean script info, VFR transform etc.).

### I've found a bug!? ###

Report it on the [bug tracker](http://devel.aegisub.org/). Please
include as many details as possible in your report! Remember that if a
bug is not on the bug tracker, it _does not exist_ as far as we are
concerned.

### Why doesn't Aegisub have &lt;feature X&gt;? &lt;Program Y&gt; has it! ###

Quite possibly because we didn't know you wanted it. Request it on the
[bug tracker](http://devel.aegisub.org/) and see what happens.

### Where can I find more information and/or get help? ###

For Aegisub-related stuff, the [forums](http://forums.aegisub.org) and
the [IRC channel](irc://irc.rizon.net/aegisub) are good places to ask
questions. The Aegisub [devel wiki](http://devel.aegisub.org) also
contains some more obscure information not included in the manual for
various reasons, and so does the forums.  For general video-related
questions, [Doom9.org](http://www.doom9.org) and [its
forums](http://forum.doom9.org) is generally the place to go.

### Are there any VSFilter bugs I should know about? ###

In one word: [yes](http://asa.diac24.net/VSFilter#BUGS).
