---
title: 1.09 beta
menu:
  changelogs:
    parent: '1'
weight: -109
date: 2006-01-16
---

- Implemented Timing Post-Processor dialog to automatically add lead-in/lead-out, scene timing and adjascence adjustment for sharp-timed subs (AMZ)
- Aegisub is now translateable, with proper localization files. (AMZ) Available now are:
  - Brazilian Portuguese
  - French (thanks to TechNiko and Kurasu)
  - Russian (thanks to ]thrash_sensei[)
  - German (thanks to equinox)
- Fixed saving of hotkeys (AMZ)
- Fixed behavior of Insert key in Translation Assistant (AMZ)
- Ctrl+Enter now previews in translation assistant (AMZ)
- Fixed "make times continuous" bug (AMZ)
- Checks if there's enough free space when using disk cache and asks if disk cache should be used when there isn't enough ram available (Myrsloik)
- Always enforces the set memory limit for avisynth even if no video is opened (Myrsloik)
- Fixed crashes when not enough memory could be allocated for ram cache (Myrsloik)
- Properties dialog will no longer flag file as modified if nothing changed (AMZ)
- The config.dat file is now fully documented again, for the first time since beta 1.00... let's see how long it lasts. (TheFluff)
- Selected line is now properly enabled on audio display when audio is loaded (AMZ)
- Cosmetic improvements to toolbar (AMZ)
- Improved command line and drag-and-drop opening of files (extended to allow video and audio at the same time as well) (AMZ)
- Fixed audio glitches when using disk cache and scrolling the audio display while playing (Myrsloik)
- Improved the ram cache allocation so it should work for really large files if enough ram is available (Myrsloik)
- Fixed exporting of SSA styles (AMZ)
- Automation: The precalculation step in karaskel.lua is now in a function by itself, precalc_syllable_data (jfs)
- Automation: New function added to utils.lua, string.headtail(s): treats s as a list of words separated by spaces, returns two strings, the first word (the head) and the rest of the string (the tail), like car/cdr (jfs)
- Fixed behavior of dialog that asks you to change script resolution based on video resolution (AMZ)
- Video and audio displays can now be hidden via the View menu (AMZ)
- Translation assistant now shows proper text color (AMZ)
- Translation assistant now shows total line count (AMZ)
- Hotkeys for translation and styling assistants are now customizeable (AMZ)
- Default character encoding for saving can now be set via the evil "save charset" in config.dat. (AMZ) A few examples:
  - "save charset=UTF-8" - Default setting. RECOMMENDED.
  - "save charset=UTF-16" - Saves as UTF-16 instead of UTF-8. This solves issues if you must deal with a program that can't support UTF-8, such as ancient textsub or wordpad.
  - "save charset=local" - Kills unicode support in saving subtitles, and saves as local charset. THIS OPTION IS NOT RECOMMENDED! It will, however, make scripts compatible with Medusa and other non-unicode programs.
  - "save charset=Shift_JIS" - Same as above, but saves as Shift_JIS (japanese script). NOT RECOMMENDED!
  - "save charset=ISO-8859-1" - Same as above, but saves as ISO-8859-1 (western script). NOT RECOMMENDED!</br>
   Remember: You can always save to another charset via the File->Export option. This is much safer!
- Setting "Use nonstandard milisecond times" in config.dat makes Aegisub use miliseconds instead of centiseconds for ASS times. DO NOT use it unless you know EXACTLY why you should! NORMAL VSFILTER CAN'T HANDLE THIS. (AMZ)
- Resolution resampler now affects drawing commands as well (AMZ)
