---
title: Timing Post-Processor
menu:
  docs:
    parent: timing
weight: 5300
---

The timing postprocessor is a highly useful tool for automatically correcting
timing in various ways.

## Overview

As shown in the screenshot, there are three functions:

- Add lead-in and/or lead-out
- Make lines that start close to each other continuous by extending or
  contracting their start and/or end times
- Snapping line starts/ends to video keyframes (only available if a video is
  loaded)

![Dialog_timing_processor](/img/3.2/Dialog_timing_processor.png#center)

The processing gets applied in the order it is displayed in the dialogue box.
That is to say, first lead-in/outs are added, then a check for adjascent lines
is performed and lines that are closer than the given threshold are made
continuous, and lastly, line start/ends get snapped to keyframes.

## Apply to styles

This field determines which styles will get processed - check all you want to
process. This is useful for only processing dialogue lines while leaving signs
and/or karaoke alone.

## Options

Check "Affect Selection Only" to restrict the operation to the selected lines.
If this is left unchecked, all lines in the file whose style match the selected
ones will be affected.

## Lead-in/Lead-out

This function extends the start/end times of the line, a procedure known as
adding lead-in and lead-out. The postprocessor will add the given time (in
milliseconds) to each line start and end, respectively. You can add both
lead-in and lead-out, only one, or none, by checking and unchecking the boxes
as appropriate. Adding lead-in or out will never make lines overlap if they do
not already overlap.

## Make adjacent subtitles continuous

This function will check if any two lines' starts and ends are closer in time
than the given threshold (in milliseconds). If they are, one or both will get
their start and/or end time moved so that they are continuous (i.e. one appears
directly following the next, without any subtitle-less frames in between).

The _Bias_ slider determines how the lines are extended. Sliding it all the way
to the right will extend the end time of the first line all the way to the
start time of the second, without touching the second line at all. Sliding it
all the way to the left will instead make the start time of the second line
extend backwards to the end of the first line, without touching the first line
at all. Putting it in the middle will extend the end time of the first line and
the start time of the second equally, so that they meet in the middle. Anything
in between will makes the lines "meet" where the slider is, so to speak. For
example, if the threshold was 1000, and the slider was 3/4ths of the way to the
right (roughly as shown in the screenshot), the end time of the first line
would get extended by 750 ms, and the start time of the second extended
backwards with 250 ms.

Note that when using *Make adjacent subtitles continuous* to eliminate
overlaps, you probably do not want to enable adding lead-in or out, as that is
applied before the overlap elimination.

## Keyframe snapping

The keyframe snapping function is a kind of automatic scenetimer. It is
probably the most useful of the three, but will only work if there is a video
or keyframe loaded, because of its dependency on keyframes. See the [keyframes section of the working with video page]({{< relref "Video#keyframes" >}}).

The keyframe snapping function will look at how close the start and end of
lines are to the nearest keyframe, and if they are closer than the given
threshold, it will get extended or shortened to the keyframe.

There are four thresholds to consider:

*Starts before*
: If the line starts less than this many milliseconds (inclusive) _before_ a
  keyframe, its start time will get moved forward so that the line starts on
  the keyframe.

*Starts after*
: If the line starts less than this many milliseconds (inclusive) _after_ a
  keyframe, its start time will get moved backward so that the line starts on
  the keyframe.

*Ends before*
: If the line ends less than this many milliseconds (inclusive) _before_ a
  keyframe, its end time will get moved forward so that the line ends on the
  frame before the keyframe.

*Ends after*
: if the line ends less than this many milliseconds (inclusive) _after_ a
  keyframe, its end time will get moved backward so that the line ends on the
  frame before the keyframe.

When using this feature, remember your lead-in/out times! Your *Starts before*
and *Ends after* thresholds should normally be at least as long as your lead-in
and lead-out, or lines which were initially scene-timed may be turned into
bleeds.

Another thing you can do with the keyframe snapping feature is using it to
correct one-frame bleeds really, really fast. If your script is full of them,
just set all the thresholds to 50, disable the lead-in/out adding and the
adjacent line snapping, choose your dialogue style, and hit Apply. Problem
solved.
