---
title: Working with Video
menu:
  docs:
    parent: typesetting
weight: 4100
---

Aegisub isn't a video (or media) player, but it still supports loading and
working with video in various ways. This page is a reference of how Aegisub's
loading and handling of video works; for a gentler introduction on how to just
get things to display properly you may want to read the [Visual_Typesetting]({{< relref "Visual_Typesetting" >}}) pages.

## Opening video

To load a video file, go to the _Video_ menu and press _Open video file_. What
video files you can open depends on your [video provider]({{< relref "Options#video" >}}). To
use a dummy (mockup, blank) video, press _Use dummy video_.

### Supported formats

Aegisub normally uses [FFMS2](http://code.google.com/p/ffmpegsource/) to open
video, which supports opening nearly all common A/V formats, and many uncommon
ones. For a full list of codecs supported, see [FFmpeg](http://ffmpeg.org/) or
[Libav](http://libav.org/) documentation. Note that FFMS2 current has issues
with interlaced H.264.

On Windows, [Avisynth](http://avisynth.org/mediawiki/Main_Page) can be used
instead of FFMS2. When opening via _Avisynth_, Aegisub will try several source
functions to find the best choice:

Import()
: Avisynth builtin function. Used to load Avisynth scripts, never used
  for anything else.

AviSource()
: Avisynth builtin function. AviSource uses the system's Video for
  Windows (VfW) decoder to open the video, which for some esoteric
  formats may be the best or only way to open a file. Only supports .avi
  files, for obvious reasons. If AviSource cannot open a file, DSS2 is
  tried, followed by DirectShowSource.

MPEG2Source()
: Only used to load .d2v files (DVD2AVI project files; otherwise known
  as indexed .VOB's ripped from DVD's). Tries to use neuron2's
  [DGDecode](http://neuron2.net/dgmpgdec/dgmpgdec.html) to open the file;
  if Aegisub can't find or load that it'll try the old mpeg2dec3.dll
  instead; if that too fails, returns an error. This is the most
  reliable way to open DVD video in Aegisub.

DSS2()
: Tries to find, load and use Haali's DirectShowSource2 plugin (comes
  with the [Haali Media Splitter](http://haali.cs.msu.ru/mkv/) package
  and with the [CCCP](http://cccp-project.net); the Avisynth plugin is
  _avss.dll_, you need to manually put it somewhere where Aegisub or
  Avisynth can find it, see below). That will in turn try to use your
  computer's DirectShow environment to open the file. Theoretically any
  file renderable by DirectShow should be supported, but since you are at
  the mercy of third-party splitters and decoders, your mileage may vary.
  As a rule of thumb, if it's playable in Windows Media Player, Aegisub
  should be able to load it. Do note that DSS2 converts variable
  framerate files to constant.  Usually this is what you want and expect
  but if you're doing proper VFR subtitles, it isn't.

DirectShowSource()
: Uses DirectShowSource() (which ships with Avisynth) to try to load
  the file. Basically the same as DSS2, but far less reliable and it
  doesn't convert VFR to CFR. Warning: DSS is known to have problems with
  frame-accurate seeking. Do not use it if you can avoid it.

Note that [VFR]({{< relref "Video#variableframeratevideo" >}}) is not supported by the
Avisynth provider. In some cases loading [external timecodes]({{< relref "Video#timecodes" >}})
may work, but in practice it will often result in a broken mess.

Aegisub will look for Avisynth plugins in its
[?data]({{< relref "Aegisub_path_specifiers#?data" >}}) directory (generally the folder where
aegisub32.exe is, on Windows). You can also put them directly in your Avisynth
plugins folder to get them autoloaded.

### Dummy video

Aegisub also supports providing a bogus video surface for you to render
subtitles on without having any actual video loaded. The dummy video dialog box
looks like this:

![Dummy_video](/img/3.2/Dummy_video.png#center)

Resolution
: The resolution of the dummy video in pixels. There are a few
  pre-defined choices in the dropdown menu; you can also specify the size
  yourself. Note that since the dummy video is RGB there are no
  particular restrictions with regards to odd widths/heights.

Colour
: The colour of the video surface. The color is solid by default; tick
  the box "checkerboard pattern" if you want some more variation.

Frame rate
: Determines how long each frame is displayed by setting the number of
  frames per second (fps). Note that it is in fact possible to load VFR
  timecodes with dummy video.

Duration
: The duration of the video in frames. Below this number is shown the
  resulting duration in hours/minutes/seconds.

## Playing video

Aegisub does support playing back video, but it has been widely debated if it
is a misfeature or not.

### Before you press the "play" button

Think it through. Do you really **want** to play the video? (Hint: the answer
is "no", you don't want to do that, at least not in Aegisub.) If you're trying
to check if a subtitle matches up to something in the video, wouldn't it be
easier to just step through the video frame-by-frame with the arrow keys? If
you're proofwatching, it would be a better idea to watch it in a player your
viewers might actually use.

To conclude: in real world situations, you will never need to play the video
from inside Aegisub. The mantra is: Aegisub isn't a media player; if you want a
media player use a media player. Nonetheless, Aegisub does make a reasonable
effort to support reliable video playback and in practice it will usually work
fine.

Note that audio has to be explicitly loaded for Aegisub to play it while
playing video. If you find this bothersome, there is an option to automatically
open audio whenever a video file is opened.

## Keyframes

A brief, highly simplified explanation of what a keyframe is, for the people
who missed Video 101:

Modern video codecs compress video by storing as little information as
possible. Instead of storing all frames in full (like a large amount of JPG
pictures), they take occasionally take a keyframe, which is stored fully, and
for each frame after that until the next keyframe, they only store what changed
in the picture since the last frame. Hence, to seek to a given frame the
decoder needs to find the previous keyframe and decode all frames between that
frame and the sought one, which means seeking to keyframes is faster than to
other frames. Keyframes are interesting mostly for scene timing reasons,
because they usually appear at scenechanges. The first frame in a scene is
almost invariably a keyframe, but beware - far from every keyframe is a
scenechange! Most encoders insert a keyframe at least once every 250-300
frames, even if there hasn't been a scenechange.

Aegisub uses keyframe data at several places in the program. They are drawn as
black lines on the video seek bar, and (by default) also displayed in the audio
waveform/spectrum analyzer.

### Loading and saving of keyframe data

When opening video through FFMS2, Aegisub supports reading keyframe data from
most file formats, while the Avisynth provider only supports reading keyframes
from AVI. If you are using a video format which keyframes can't be read from,
you can still load keyframe data separately. Aegisub currently supports reading
from several formats: its own keyframe file format (see specification below),
XviD first-pass files, DivX first-pass files, and x264 first-pass files.

Even if keyframes can be read from the file it is sometimes useful to override
them with external keyframes. Using XviD first-pass .stat files for audio
timing is fairly popular, as XviD's keyframe choices correlate unusually well
with scene changes.

Aegisub can also write the currently loaded keyframe data to a keyframes file,
which can be useful to avoid passing video files around in certain situations
(audio timing for example).

### Keyframe file specification

A keyframes file is a plain ASCII-encoded text file; both \\n and \\r\\n is
understood to mean a linebreak. Syntax example:

```plaintext
# keyframe format v1
fps 0
0
30
70
82
130
131
```

The first line is the format specification: the string
`# keyframe format v1`. The second line contains the FPS of the video used to
generate the keyframe data; however no programs (Aegisub included) actually
support this and so it is typically just `0`. Finally, after the fps line
follows an arbitrary number of long integers (one per line), each representing
the frame number of a keyframe. The frame numbers are zero-indexed; i.e. the
first frame of the video is frame number 0.

## Variable framerate video

Aegisub supports loading and working with variable framerate video. The how's
and why's of VFR is far outside the scope of this manual (see for example [the
VFR thread on AnimeSuki](http://forums.animesuki.com/showthread.php?t=34738) or
the [Avisynth manual page](http://avisynth.org/mediawiki/VFR) for more
information about VFR), but we will cover what you need to know about how
Aegisub handles it.

### Timecodes

Loading of Matroska timecode files (v1 and v2) is supported and useful if you
have a VFRaC (Variable FrameRate assumed Constant; for example the frames of an
VFR MKV stored in an AVI at a constant FPS, see the VFR thread linked above for
details) video file but want the subs to sync to it. If you load a VFR file,
Aegisub will automatically read the timecodes from it directly.

### VFR and hardsubbing

As long as you're not encoding with GDSMux, the encoding environment your
subtitling filter is working in (i.e. Avisynth, VirtualDub or mencoder) will
assume that the world is CFR, and hence the input file is VFRaC. This is
obviously a problem since it messes up subtitle synchronization. Aegisub
provides a way around this through the Framerate Transformation export filter,
which takes the framerate of the VFRaC input file and the timecodes, and then
changes every time code and override tag in the script so it can be hardsubbed
on the VFRaC video and still sync up perfectly after timecodes are applied. To
prepare a script for hardsubbing, make sure you have the timecodes loaded, then
go to the _File_ menu and press _Export_. Untick everything except the
_Transform Framerate_ filter. Choose the _Variable_ output mode. It needs to
know the FPS of the video you're going to hardsub the subtitles on; if you have
video loaded Aegisub will assume that's it and insert it in the box for you.

**Note:** if you have a Matroska or other VFR file loaded, remember that the
FPS value Aegisub reports might not be the same as the one of the video you are
going to hardsub the subtitles on.

## Anamorphic video

**OR: How to get your subtitles to not look stretched**

The following paragraphs assumes that you have a working knowledge of what
anamorphic video is and how aspect ratios work. If you feel unsure, you may
want to consult a [gentle but fairly complete
introduction](http://www.hometheaterhifi.com/volume_6_4/feature-article-enhanced-widescreen-november-99.html).

### Image stretching and subtitle rendering

An anamorphic image needs to be stretched to the proper aspect ratio before it
is presented to the viewer. On a computer, this is usually done by the video
renderer, and thereby lies a problem. Most subtitle renderers (including
VSFilter, the current "standard" renderer) do the subtitle drawing on the image
before it is stretched, and since the renderer is not aware of any aspect ratio
issues, the subtitles will be stretched along with the image when the video is
displayed to the viewer, and therefore they will look stretched. Aegisub does
its subtitle rendering this way as well (since that way it will be WYSIWYG with
most players); you can test how it looks by using the "Override aspect ratio"
in the video menu.

### Compensating for the stretching

Fortunately it's easy to compensate for the stretching, since you know by how
much the image will be stretched (since you know its original dimensions and
the display aspect ratio). You just calculate how many percent the image will
be stretched in either the X or the Y direction, and then set the ScaleX or
ScaleY parameter in the [style]({{< relref "Styles" >}}) (or use the `\fscx` or
`\fscy` [overrides]({{< relref "ASS_Tags" >}})) to the same amount but in the other
direction.

Example: we have a 704x480 image that we know will be displayed as 16:9 (or
1.7777...:1). If we assume that the player will stretch the width but leave the
height untouched, this means that the new width will be:

```plaintext
(16 / 9) * 480 = 853.333...
```

which in percent is:

```plaintext
853.333... / 704 = 1.212121...
```

i.e. 121%. Hence, to compensate for this horizontal (X-direction) stretch we
set ScaleY in all our styles to 121% to stretch the subtitles by the same
amount, and after rendering they now no longer look stretched.

**OR** we can do the stretching in the other direction, assuming that the
player changes the height of the image instead. Assuming the same image:
704 / (16 / 9) = 396
which corresponds to:
396 / 480 = 0.825
or 82.5%, which means we can compensate for the vertical (Y) compression by
setting ScaleX to 82.5%.

### Caveats

Both of the above methods give the subtitles the proper aspect ratio, but
depending on how the player does the stretching, you may get subtle variations
in subtitle size. Aegisub (and indeed most video players and renderers) always
changes the image width and never the height, except if you pick the "custom"
aspect ratio and specify a resolution. Note that if you use the Matroska
container, you may specify the display resolution directly, but player support
of this varies.

Note that some odd subtitle renderers (most notably Media Player Classic's
builtin renderer) are actually a part of the video renderer and will do the
subtitle rendering _after_ anamorphic stretching, resulting in stretched
subtitles and much annoyance. With MPlayer's libass renderer, you can actually
specify whether subtitles should be drawn before or after stretching by using
the -vf parameter to move the subtitle renderer in the filter chain.

### Further reading

For more information about anamorphic video and aspect ratios in general (a
deeply obfuscated topic that appears simple at a glance) the following links
may be of interest:

- [A Quick Guide to Digital Video Resolution and Aspect Ratio
  Conversions](http://lipas.uwasa.fi/~f76998/video/conversion/) - Absolutely
  essential reading for anyone who wants to really understand the topic, but
  unfortunately far more than everything most people ever wanted to know about
  it.
  [Widescreen.org: Aspect
  Ratios](http://www.widescreen.org/aspect_ratios.shtml) - the history and
  reasons for some common aspect ratios
- [Wikipedia: Aspect Ratio (image)](<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aspect_ratio_(image)>)
- [Wikipedia: Anamorphic Widescreen](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anamorphic_widescreen)

## The video menu

The following options are available from the video menu:

### Sourcefile-related

Open video
: Opens video. Note that if you try to open another video with video
  already loaded, the original video will be closed first.

Close video
: Unloads the currently open video.

Recent
: Shows list of recently opened videos.

Use dummy video
: Opens a dummy video (see above).

Show video details
: Shows some information about the currently open video. Details shown
  are filename, frames per second (for VFR files the average FPS is
  displayed), resolution and aspect ratio, length and decoder. Decoder
  being what filter/method Aegisub used to open the file.

### Timecodes-related

Open timecodes file
: Loads a timecodes file and applies it to the video, changing the
  video/subtitle synchronization.

Save timecodes file
: Saves the currently loaded timecodes as a new v2 timecodes file.

Close timecodes file
: Unloads the currently loaded timecodes.

Recent
: Shows list of recently opened timecodes files.

### Keyframes-related

Open keyframes
: Loads keyframe data from the given file. If you already have keyframe
  data loaded, it will be replaced by the one read from the file.

Save keyframes
: Saves the currently loaded keyframes data to a keyframes file.

Close keyframes
: Unloads the currently loaded keyframe data, if any. Note that it is
  not possible to unload keyframe data that was directly loaded from the
  video file; if you want to get rid of that for some reason, load a
  keyframes file with only frame 0 being marked as a keyframe.

Recent
: Shows list of recently loaded keyframe files.

### Display-related

Detach video
: Detaches the video display and related controls from the Aegisub main
  window and moves it into its own window. To reattach the video to the
  main window, close the detached window. This feature can be
  particularly useful on multi-monitor setups.

Set zoom
: Sets the video zoom level.

Override aspect ratio
: Stretches the video to the specified aspect ratio by modifying the
  video width. Useful for anamorphic video (see above).

Show overscan mask
: Draws a blue "mask" over the image, indicating the edges of the
  action safe (dark blue) and title safe (light blue) areas. Useful if
  you plan on showing your subtitles on a TV without adjustable overscan
  correction. For more information, see the Wikipedia pages on
  [overscan](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Overscan), [safe
  areas](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Safe_area) and [overscan
  amounts](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Overscan_amounts). Aegisub
  follows the [BBC
  guidelines](http://www.bbc.co.uk/guidelines/dq/pdf/tv/tv_standards_london.pdf)
  on how big the safe areas should be.

### Seeking-related

Jump to
: Seeks the video to the given time or frame.

Jump video to start
: Seeks the video to the start time of the currently active line.

Jump video to end
: Seeks the video to the end time of the currently active line.
