---
title: Aegisub 2.1.8 released
contributors:
  - jfs
date: 2010-01-30T09:22:00.005000Z
lastmod: 2010-01-30T16:19:13.497000Z
weight: 50
tags:
  - old-post
  - release
  - aegisub
  - osx
  - announcement
aliases:
  - /blog/2010/01/aegisub-218-released.html
---

It finally happened. About 6 weeks later than planned.
We have released Aegisub version 2.1.8.

[Download it from www.aegisub.org](http://www.aegisub.org/#download)

So what's new? Not a whole lot, actually. The major *news* would be that we now have versions for Mac OS X, Linux and other Unix systems. Do note that especially the Mac version is unstable and has several known problems, we consider it alpha quality software.

For the Windows version, the major highlights are:

- Video should now work on almost all systems, the display code has been made much more robust.
- The "Could not lock buffer for filling" audio bug has been fixed.
- We have an Upgrade installer, which is much less to download. If you already have 2.1.7 release installed, this is the fastest way to get up-to-date. (But it only works on exactly 2.1.7 release. Not on older versions. Not on pre-release versions.)
- The Portable version is now feature-complete, save for ASSDraw3, which we can't easily make portable. But you do get all dictionaries and translations in the portable versions now.

You can see everything in [the full changelog](/changelog/2.1.8/).

***Update:** There is a mistake in the installer causing the Russian and Vietnamese program translations to be mixed up. We have uploaded updated installers for Windows. If you downloaded 2.1.8 early and have problems with Russian or Vietnamese, download the Upgrade installer, it can correct the problem.*
