---
title: Aegisub 3.0.0 Released
contributors:
  - Plorkyeran
date: 2012-10-01T16:50:00+01:00
lastmod: 2012-10-01T16:50:18.645000+01:00
weight: 50
tags:
  - old-post
  - release
  - aegisub
  - announcement
aliases:
  - /blog/2012/10/aegisub-300-released.html
---

Back in 2009, it was becoming increasingly clear that Aegisub's code base was becoming an unmaintainable mess, and so following the release of 2.1.7 development was split into two branches: 2.1.8 was to be a minor bug fix release, while 2.2.0 would Fix All The Problems. This, of course, turned out to be wildly overambitious. 2.2.0 ended up involving rewriting substantial portions of the program, and was eventually renamed 3.0.0 (after briefly being 2.5.0).

As you might expect from a version that took slightly over three years to release and has ten times as many commits as any previous version, a bunch of things have changed. Some of the highlights are:

- The audio display has been completely rewritten and is quite different (and hopefully better).
- Changes in the edit box no longer have to be committed and are instead applied immediately (see [this forum post I wrote](http://forum.aegisub.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=64469) if this is annoying you)
- Seeking the video no longer blocks the UI while the video is decoding, making seeking backwards much more pleasant.
- The visual typesetting tools support modifying multiple lines at a time.
- The fonts collector should now always copy exactly the fonts required in all cases, and warns about cases where the fonts will probably not work as desired.
- Libass and xy-VSFilter are included in the Windows version.
- The preferences and hotkeys systems have been rewritten. Hotkey customization is now more flexible, and other than the UI language changing options now never requires a restart.
- The OS X version is maybe sort of usable (or at least not quite as hideous).

This is but a small fraction of the many changes; see the [very long changelog](/changelog/3.0.0) for more details.

## UI Translations

Many of the UI translations are maintained by people which we do not have any reliable or consistent communication with, and so historically UI translation updates have been a significant source of delays for releases. For 3.0.0 we instead did not wait for all of the translations to be completed, and will instead release regular updates (perhaps biweekly) with bug fixes and translation updates.

#### Languages fully updated

- Basque
- French
- German
- Indonesian
- Italian
- Portuguese
- Serbian
- Spanish

#### Languages whose translator we're in contact with, but did not complete the translation update in time

- Greek
- Japanese
- Polish
- Russian

#### Languages whose maintainers we were unable to contact

- Catalan
- Chinese
- Czech
- Farsi
- Finnish
- Hungarian
- Korean
- Vietnamese

If you or someone you know is willing to update the translation for one of these languages, please get in touch.
